# Koch2017
reproducing figures from the Koch et al 2017 paper
DOI: 10.1111/nph.14465 or at https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1111/nph.14465
Data is available, code is not available

Table S1 The isolate number (first column) represents the isolates as shown in Fig. 1 from left to Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi (INVAM) and much additional information on the culture history of these isolates can be found on the INVAM webpage (http://invam.caf.wvu.edu). Abbreviations of main AM fungal taxa as shown in Fig. 1 are given in the column B (Genus). Some AM fungal taxa were recently re-classified (http://schuessler.userweb.mwn.de/amphylo/Schuessler&Walker2010_Glomeromycota.pdf) (Schussler & Walker, 2010) and their new genus names are given in the same column in [square brackets]. The last columns (E-I) contain information about the geographic origins of the isolates. In cases where we lacked detailed information about the origin of an isolate, the largest (or most central) city of a country/region is given as reference of origin in open brackets (e.g. “Seoul” for isolate # 1, KR102).

"Table S2 (a) Effect of inoculation only: Summary statistics of PERMANOVA to compare non-inoculated control and inoculated plants. Box-cox transformed data were analyzed using a fully crossed, fixed three-way model with Host (plant species, three levels), Time (harvest time, three levels) and Inoculation by AM fungi (two levels) and 1111 permutations. Shown are the Pseudo F-values (F). %VarCo indicates the (standardized) relative component of variation of every term in the model. (b) Full model: summary statistics of ANOVA (plant dry weight (DW), root:shoot (R/S), % root ocloniztion arbuscules (AC), total root length (RLA), total fungal volume (FV), % Relative fungal investment ( %Rel. FI). Univariate traits were box-cox transformed before analyses (the transformations used are indicated; variables that included values of zero were initially x+1 transformed). Data were analyzed using a nested mixed model. Glomus intraradices and Glomus irregulare were treated as two separate AM fungal species (models that pooled or omitted these two AM fungal species gave qualitatively similar results, data not shown). The nested structure of Isolate (Iso) within the Species (Sp) is indicated by the notation Iso(Sp). For % Relative fungal investment, we calculated the percentages of arbuscular volume (AV), intraradical hyphal volume (IHV), extraradical hyphal volume (EHV) and spore volume (SP) of the total non-vesicular fungal volume (i.e., the sum of AV, IHV, EHV and SP) for each plant (individual container). This was done to avoid only zero-values within the Gigasporaceae, since no vesicles were observed for isolates of this AM fungal clade. Levels of significance (LS) are indicated throughout Tables S2-S3 as P < 0.1 (+), P < 0.05 (*), P < 0.01 (**) and P < 0.001 (***)."

"Table S3:Summary statistics for the analysis of trait divergence and nodal trait values (± SD) for each node of the Glomeromycota phylogeny. Each row represents either the average across host species or each individual host. The top row indicates AM fungal genera and species affiliations and the corresponding abbreviated genus and species affiliations of isolates (See Fig. 1 and Table S1). The second row lists the node numbers from the phylogeny in Fig. 1, and are associated with the contribution index (CI) for each node. The CI values are shown as percentages, so that the sum of all CI values of all nodes always add to 100%. Note that the second last column represents the root node of the Glomeromycota (node 31). Trait values for the species nodes of the phylogeny (“extant AM fungi”) are highlighted in grey and nodes above the AM fungal species level are not highlighted. The CI for each trait and node is shown in the first line in each row. Nodes that contributed greater than expected variability (a high CI) are indicated by the letter D (“Divergence”), followed by the level of significance. Nodes that contributed less than expected variability (a low CI) are marked by the letter s (“stasis”), followed by the level of significance. The last column shows the summed percent contribution index (sum.CIr) of all species level nodes (those highlighted in grey) for each trait to investigate how much of trait variability was explained at the species level (i.e., among isolates within species). Summed CI values >50% indicate that a majority of variation is accounted for by divergences within species, whereas summed CI values <50% indicate that a majority of variation is accounted for by divergences above the species level (i.e., at the family and sub-family levels). The second line on each row is the mean trait value for a node ± SD, calculated as the average of isolates descended from that node. For each trait and host species, the analyses were based on the overall least-square values of each isolate and plant species (Achillea millefolium, Bromus inermis and Medicago sativa, abbreviated as A. mill, B. iner and M. sati, respectively). The overall effect across host species was assessed by the mean across hosts least-square values for each isolate (“Overall”). Traits analyzed were total plant dry weight (DW), root to shoot ratio (R / S), total arbuscular, vesicular and root hyphal volumes (Arb. V, Ves. V and Root HV, respectively), total extraradical hyphal volume (EHV), number of AM fungal spores per gram dried substrate (Spore #), total AM fungal spore volume (Spore V), root fungal volume (Root FV, i.e., the sum of Arb. V, Ves. V and RH V), total soil fungal volume (Soil FV, i.e., the sum of EHV and Spore V), total fungal volume (FV, i.e., the sum of Root FV and Soil FV), the percentage of Root FV from the FV (% RVF) and the percentage of Spore V from the Soil FV (% SV). For consistency with Fig. 1 all plant DW values are given in grams, R / S ratios are dimensionless (i.e., total root dry weight [g] / total shoot dry weight [g]) and all fungal volume traits are given in cubic millimeters per container.",,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,